Exercise 11.1

c. How do the external libraries (in the project pane) relate to J2SE and J2EE?

	- The two external libraries are the JDK (Java Development Kit) and the GlassFish 4.1.
  	These libraries are needed to build our J2EE application.
    JDK 1.8 makes up J2SE (Standard Edition) and adding the GlassFish libraries (JAR files) makes it J2EE
  	(Enterprise Edition).

d. Set the HTML title and body content to whatever you'd like. At what tier does this application run?

	- This application runs on the Web Tier.

e. What server does this step use to serve up your application? For a hint, look at what's served up at the URL:/.
	How does it compare with a typical web server?

	- This step uses localhost:8080 to serve up my application. This is different from a web server because localhost
	  is running on the local computer host, while typical web servers serve up applications from a remote server.

f. Skim through these sections, making sure that you can find the application features they discuss. What is a WAR file?

	- A WAR file (web application archive) is a directory structure that is ready for deployment onto a web server.

g. What's the difference between "exploded" and non-exploded WAR files?

	- An exploded archive is a tree of folder and files that respects a given structure
    which your application server can exploit to deploy the application.
    Non-exploded WAR file is the actual archive file that is ready for deployment onto a web server.

h. Compare and contrast EAR and WAR atrifacts.

	- A WAR file (or Web application ARchive) is a JAR file used to distribute a collection of JavaServer Pages,
    Java Servlets, Java classes, XML files, tag libraries, static web pages (HTML and related files)
    and other resources that together constitute a web application.
    EAR (Enterprise Application aRchive) is a file format used by Java EE for packaging one or more modules into a
    single archive so that the deployment of the various modules onto an application server happens simultaneously and coherently.


Exercise 11.2

b. What library does this application use for REST support?

	- This application uses the JAX-RS library for REST support. JAX-RS is the Java API for RESTful Web Services. This is found in the archived
	  javax.ws.rs-api.jar file in the External Libraries section of the Project Directory/Structure
