a. What type of noSQL database system is Oracle’s NoSQL product, KVLite?
	- It is a Key Value Store NoSQL Database.

b. The Internet Movie DataBase (imdb.com) is currently implemented in mySQL.
If you were required to port it to a noSQL system, which of the noSQL system types would you suggest?
Explain your answer.
	- A key Value Store database would work well, but I think a column based Store would be better
	  because of the amount of data the database could potentially host.
	  In column-oriented NoSQL database, data is stored in cells grouped in columns
	  of data rather than as rows of data. Columns are logically grouped into column families.
	  Column families can contain a virtually unlimited number of columns that can be created at
	  runtime or the definition of the schema. Read and write is done using columns rather than rows.

c. Could you (efficiently) reuse the same key-value structure for exercise 13.1.d (above) and its “opposite”,
i.e.,get the movies in which a given actor is cast? Why or why not?
	- No.

d. NoSQL databases are often referred to as schema-less or schema-free.
Explain what this means using examples from your homework solution.
	- The main strength of schemaless databases comes to light when using them in an object-oriented context with inheritance.
	  Inheritance means that you have objects which have some attributes in common,
	  but also some attributes which are specific to the sub-type of object.
	  example, the imdb database
	  Every movie has the attributes ID, name, year, and rank.
	  But Artistes have ID, firstName, and lastName,
	  Roles both movie ID and Artiste ID.
	  Doing this in a relational database leaves you two options which are equally cumbersome:
	  create a table with fields for all possible attributes, but leave most of them NULL for products where they don't apply.
	  create a secondary table "movie_attributes" with movieId, movie_name and movie_year.
	  A schemaless database, on the other hand, easily allows to store items in the same collection
	  which have different sets of optional properties. The code to render the product attributes to HTML
	  would then check for the existence of each known optional property and then call an appropriate
	  function which outputs its value as a table row.
