Read Chapter 3.a. Compare and contrast the database and the software design processes. Are agile modeling practices applicable to database design as well?- Yes, agile modeling practices are applicable to database design. Database design and Software design share practices such as, the collection of requirements and analyzing those requirements, the creation of a conceptual design, and then finally, the the creation of the physical design which are all Agile pracitcesb. Explain the following terms: entities, relationships (including cardinality and participation constraints), attributes (simple, composite, multi-valued and derived).- Entity: is a thing or object in the real world with an independent existence.- Relationship: is a situation that exists between two relational database tables when one table has a foreign key that references the primary key of the other table.- Cardinality: refers to the uniqueness of data values contained in a column- Participation ratio: specifies whether the existence of an entity depends on its being related to another entity via the relationship type.- Attributes: particular properties that describe am entity.- Simple attributes: Attributes that are not divisible- Composite attributes: attributes can be - divided into smaller subparts, which represent more basic attributes with independent meanings.- Multi-valued attributes:  have a multiple values for a particular entity;c. Explain weak entities and identifying relationships.- weak entity is an entity that cannot be uniquely identified by its attributes alone; therefore, it must use a foreign key in conjunction with its attributes to create a primary key.- An identifying relationship is when the existence of a row in a child table depends on a row in a parent table.- - Read Chapter 9.a. Explain how to map from a UML model to a relational database model. We will address this issue more carefully in a later unit (on object-relational mapping).-  Map Regular Entity Types.- Map Weak Entity Types.- Map Binary 1:1 Relationship Types.- Map Binary 1:N Relationship Types.- Map Binary M:N Relationship Types.- Map of Multivalued Attributes.- Map N-ary Relationship Types.